.. _loading-models:

Loading Models
==============

The Basics
----------

.. only:: python

   Loading static geometry is done using
   :py:meth:`loader.loadModel() <direct.showbase.Loader.Loader.loadModel>`:

   .. code-block:: python

      m = loader.loadModel("mymodel.egg")

.. only:: cpp

   Loading static geometry is done using ``window->load_model``:

   .. code-block:: cpp

      NodePath m = window->load_model(framework.get_models(), "mymodel.egg");

The path name specified in loadModel can be an absolute path, or a relative
path. Relative is recommended. If a relative path is used, then Panda3D will
search its model path to find the egg file. The model path is controlled by
panda's :ref:`configuration file <the-configuration-file>`.

Inserting the Model into the Scene Graph
----------------------------------------

Do not forget that loading the model does not, by itself, cause the model to be
visible. To cause Panda3D to render the model, you must insert it into the scene
graph:

.. only:: python

   .. code-block:: python

      m.reparentTo(render)

.. only:: cpp

   .. code-block:: cpp

      m.reparent_to(window->get_render());

You can read more about :ref:`the-scene-graph`.

Panda Filename Syntax
---------------------

The path used in the model load call must abide by Panda3D'sÂ filename
conventions. For easier portability, Panda3D uses Unix-style pathnames, even on
Microsoft Windows. This means that the directory separator character is always a
forward slash, not the Windows backslash character, and there is no leading
drive letter prefix. (Instead of a leading drive letter, Panda uses an initial
one-letter directory name to represent the drive.)

There is a fairly straightforward conversion from Windows filenames to panda
filenames. Always be sure to use Panda filename syntax when using a Panda3D
library function, or one of the panda utility programs:

.. only:: python

   .. code-block:: python

      # WRONG:
      loader.loadModel("c:\\Program Files\\My Game\\Models\\Model1.egg")

      # RIGHT:
      loader.loadModel("/c/Program Files/My Game/Models/Model1.egg")

.. only:: cpp

   .. code-block:: cpp

      # WRONG:
      window->load_model(framework.get_models(), "c:\\Program Files\\My Game\\Models\\Model1.egg");

      # RIGHT:
      window->load_model(framework.get_models(), "/c/Program Files/My Game/Models/Model1.egg");

Panda uses the :class:`.Filename` class to store Panda-style filenames; many
Panda functions expect a Filename object as a parameter. The Filename class also
contains several useful methods for path manipulation and file access, as well
as for converting between Windows-style filenames and Panda-style filenames; see
the :class:`.Filename` page in the API Reference for a more complete list.

To convert a Windows filename to a Panda pathname, use code similar to the
following:

.. only:: python

   .. code-block:: python

      from panda3d.core import Filename
      winfile = "c:\\MyGame\\Model1.egg"
      pandafile = Filename.fromOsSpecific(winfile)
      print(pandafile)

.. only:: cpp

   .. code-block:: cpp

      #include "filename.h"

      const std::string winfile = "c:\\MyGame\\Model1.egg";
      Filename pandafile = Filename::from_os_specific(winfile);
      std::cout << pandafile.get_fullpath() << "\n";

To convert a Panda filename into a Windows filename, use code like this:

.. only:: python

   .. code-block:: python

      from panda3d.core import Filename
      pandafile = Filename("/c/MyGame/Model1.egg")
      winfile = pandafile.toOsSpecific()
      print(winfile)

.. only:: cpp

   .. code-block:: cpp

      #include "filename.h"

      Filename pandafile ("/c/MyGame/Model1.egg");
      const std::string winfile = pandafile.to_os_specific();
      std::cout << winfile << "\n";

.. only:: python

   The :class:`.Filename` class can also be used in combination with Python's
   built-in path manipulation mechanisms.

Let's say, for instance, that you want to load a model, and the model is in the
"model" directory that is in the same directory as the program's main file.

Here is how you would load the model:

.. only:: python

   .. code-block:: python

      import sys,os
      import direct.directbase.DirectStart
      from panda3d.core import Filename

      # Get the location of the 'py' file I'm running:
      mydir = os.path.abspath(sys.path[0])

      # Convert that to panda's unix-style notation.
      mydir = Filename.fromOsSpecific(mydir).getFullpath()

      # Now load the model:
      model = loader.loadModel(mydir + "/models/mymodel.egg")

.. only:: cpp

   .. code-block:: cpp

      #include "filename.h"
      #include "executionEnvironment.h"

      // Get the location of the executable file I'm running:
      Filename mydir = ExecutionEnvironment::get_binary_name();
      mydir = mydir.get_dirname();

      // Now load the model:
      window->load_model(framework.get_models(), mydir + "/models/mymodel.egg");

You need to keep in mind that standard library functions provided by the system
or the programming language runtime work with OS-specific paths. So do not
forget to convert your Panda paths to OS-specific paths when using these built-
in functions. In cases where Panda's API offers equivalent functions through the
:class:`.Filename` or :class:`.VirtualFileSystem` class, however, it is
recommended to use those instead, as they will natively understand Panda
Filenames.
